Add Docs content (#58)
CrowdStrike/ember-headless-form: docs/validation/index.md

---
title: Introduction
order: 1
---

# Validation

Client side validation is a first-class citizen of ember-headless-form, supporting both [native HTML validation](./native.md) as well as JavaScript-based [custom validation](./custom-validation.md).

> See the following chapters for how to integrate the different kinds of validation. Common to all of them is how they affect what happens when a [form is submitted](../usage/data/index.md#getting-data-out). Normally upon submission the form's `@onSubmit` action is called. When however the form has validation in place, it will only be called when the validation actually passed. Otherwise `@onInvalid` is called, which also receives the in this case invalid form data object, alongside an `ErrorRecord` object.

Reviewer: Another one, feel free to ignore:

```suggestion
See the following chapters for how to integrate the different kinds of validation. Common to all of them is how they affect what happens when a [form is submitted](../usage/data/index.md#getting-data-out). Upon submitting the form, the `@onSubmit` action is called. When the form has validation in place, it will only be called when the validation has passed. Otherwise `@onInvalid` is called, which receives the invalid form data object, alongside an `ErrorRecord` object.
```

## Validation Errors

Internally, but also when creating [custom validations](./custom-validation.md) or [rendering validation errors](#rendering-validation-errors), validation errors are represented with the following structure:

```ts
interface ValidationError<T> {
  type: string; // identifier for the type of error (depending on the validation solution that generated the error)
  value: T; // the (invalid) value
  message?: string; // a ready to use message for users, not always present (depending on the validation solution that generated the error))
}
```

> An `ErrorRecord` is just a record or dictionary, mapping (invalid) field names to an array of `ValidationError`. So in TypeScript syntax basically a `Record<KEY, ValidationError<DATA[KEY]>[]>` (they _actual_ type definition is a bit more verbose, but that does not matter here).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `ErrorRecord` is just a record or dictionary, mapping (invalid) field names to an array of `ValidationError`. So in TypeScript syntax basically a `Record<KEY, ValidationError<DATA[KEY]>[]>` (the _actual_ type definition is a bit more verbose, but that does not matter here).
```
